# Medical Chatbot with Llama2 and Langchain

Welcome to the Medical Chatbot project! This chatbot leverages advanced natural language processing techniques and pre-trained models to provide a conversational interface for accessing medical literature. Here's an overview of the components and how to get started:

## Components

1. **PyPDFDirectoryLoader (Langchain)**:
   - PyPDFDirectoryLoader is a module from Langchain library used to extract text content from PDF books.
   
2. **Text embedding**:
   - hkunlp/instructor-large is a powerful embedding model trained on a large corpus of text data. It converts medical text into numerical vectors, capturing semantic meaning.

3. **Chroma DB**:
   - Chroma DB is used to store vector embeddings generated by the embedding model. This enables efficient retrieval and comparison of text representations.

4. **Llama2 Model (TheBloke/Llama-2-7B-chat-GPTQ)**:
   - The Llama2 model, available through Hugging Face, is based on GPT-style language model. It generates responses based on user prompts, making it ideal for chatbot applications.

## Getting Started

To set up and run the chatbot, follow these steps:

1. **Install Dependencies**:
   - Make sure you have Python installed.
   - Install required Python packages by running:
     ```
     pip install -r requirements.txt
     ```

2. **Download Pre-trained Models**:
   - Download the pre-trained embedding model and Llama2 model.
   - Ensure they are placed in the appropriate directories specified in the code.


3. **Interact with the Chatbot**:
   - Once the chatbot is running, you can interact with it by typing your questions.
   - The chatbot will provide responses based on the input and the available medical literature.


